feat(scrollbar): DLT-1473 add scrollbar directive (#391)
dialpad/dialtone: apps/dialtone-documentation/docs/components/scrollbar.md

---
title: Scrollbar

> description: A directive that adds customized overlay scrollbars to any scrollable section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A directive that adds a custom overlay scrollbar to any scrollable region.
```

status: beta
thumb: true
image: assets/images/components/scroller.png
---

## Scrollbar directive

Allows to add overlay scrollbars that will look the same for every browser. The directive sets up the scrollbars from the library [OverlayScrollbars](https://kingsora.github.io/OverlayScrollbars/).

<code-well-header>

>   <div class="d-hmx164 d-w30p d-bar8 d-ba d-bc-black-300" v-dt-scrollbar>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="d-hmx164 d-w30p d-bar8 d-ba d-bc-default" v-dt-scrollbar>
```

    <div v-for="item in items" class="item">
      {{ item}}
    </div>
  </div>
</code-well-header>

<code-example-tabs

> htmlCode='

Reviewer: Since this is purely a Vue plugin, I wonder how much value there is in showing HTML code beyond seeing a sample rendered result. No one will be copying the HTML code. 

Just a thought.

Author: I think in this case is valuable precisely to see the result, yes.

> <div class="d-hmx164 d-w30p d-bar8 d-ba d-bc-black-300 custom-scrollbars" data-overlayscrollbars="host" data-overlayscrollbars-initialize="true">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="d-hmx164 d-w30p d-bar8 d-ba d-bc-default custom-scrollbars" data-overlayscrollbars="host" data-overlayscrollbars-initialize="true">
```

  <div class="os-size-observer">
    <div class="os-size-observer-listener"></div>
  </div>
  <div data-overlayscrollbars-viewport="scrollbarHidden overflowXHidden overflowYScroll" tabindex="-1">
    <div class="item">user 1</div>
    ...
  </div>
  <div class="os-scrollbar os-scrollbar-horizontal os-theme-dark os-scrollbar-auto-hide os-scrollbar-handle-interactive os-scrollbar-cornerless os-scrollbar-unusable">
    <div class="os-scrollbar-track">
      <div class="os-scrollbar-handle"></div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div class="os-scrollbar os-scrollbar-vertical os-theme-dark os-scrollbar-auto-hide os-scrollbar-handle-interactive os-scrollbar-visible os-scrollbar-cornerless">
    <div class="os-scrollbar-track">
      <div class="os-scrollbar-handle"></div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
'
vueCode='

> <div class="d-hmx164 d-w30p d-bar8 d-ba d-bc-black-300" v-dt-scrollbar>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="d-hmx164 d-w30p d-bar8 d-ba d-bc-default" v-dt-scrollbar>
```

> <div class="d-hmx164 d-w30p d-bar8 d-ba d-bc-black-300" v-dt-scrollbar>

Reviewer: Actually, can you use `dt-stack`.

  <div v-for="item in items" class="item">
    {{ item}}
  </div>
</div>
'
/>

## Usage

Import the directive from dialtone-vue

```javascript
import { DtScrollbarDirective } from "@dialpad/dialtone-vue";
```

Install the directive into vue instance

```javascript
Vue.use(DtScrollbarDirective);
```

> To add customized overlay scrollbars to a scrollable section, simply include the `v-dt-scrollbar` directive on the desired element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a custom overlay scrollbar to a scrollable region, apply the `v-dt-scrollbar` directive to the desired region.
```

> Add a `max-height` to the element if you want to set up a vertical scrollbar, or a `max-width` if you want to set up a horizontal scrollbar.

Reviewer: This sounds like it's required. Is it? 

I imagine most scrollable regions won't have a `width` or `max-width` declared and are just block-level elements filling its containing width. Probably same for height, especially if they're flex items that grow.

Author: You are right. Changed it to "There is no need to explicitly add an `overflow` property. If the section overflows the available vertical space, a vertical scrollbar will be present. Similarly, if it exceeds the horizontal space, a horizontal scrollbar will appear."

## Characteristics

* Has an overlay style: it appears on top of the content rather than the scrollbar taking up space within the container
* It grows when hovering the scrollbar handle for better accessibility
* Appears on scroll over the scrollable area
* The look and feel will be the same for every browser and OS

> * Responds to the keyword events just like the native scrollbar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Emulates a browser's native scrollbar keyboard and mouse events.
* ```

## Limitations

> Adding this directive to a DOM element or a Vue component will alter the DOM structure, by adding four elements inside the one that the directive was attached to.

Reviewer 2: nice, this is much more clear.

The added elements are:

* One with the class `os-size-observer`
* The second one is the actual scrollable element
* The horizontal scrollbar
* The vertical scrollbar

This can make it challenging to use with components that rely on event listeners or may even render it unusable.

<script setup>
  const items = [
    'user 1',
    'user 2',
    'user 3',
    'user 4',
    'user 5',
    'user 6',
    'user 7',
    'user 8',
    'user 9',
    'user 10',
    'user 11',
    'user 12',
    'user 13',
    'user 14',
    'user 15',
  ]
</script>

<style lang="less" scoped>
.item {

>   height: 25px;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   padding: 0 12px;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  padding: var(--dt-space-300) var(--dt-space-400); 
```

  display: flex;

>   align-items: center;

Reviewer: Remove if you wind up using `dt-stack`.

>   border-bottom: 1px solid var(--dt-color-black-300);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
border-bottom: var(--dt-size-border-100) solid var(--dt-color-border-default);
```

---
title: Scrollbar
description: A directive that adds a custom overlay scrollbar to any scrollable region.
status: beta
thumb: true
image: assets/images/components/scroller.png
---

## Scrollbar directive

Allows to add overlay scrollbars that will look the same for every browser. The directive sets up the scrollbars from the library [OverlayScrollbars](https://kingsora.github.io/OverlayScrollbars/).

<code-well-header>
  <dt-stack class="d-hmx164 d-w30p d-bar8 d-ba d-bc-default" v-dt-scrollbar>
    <div v-for="item in items" class="item">
      {{ item}}
    </div>

>   </dt-stack>

Reviewer: Hmm, shucks. We just created a great example of the **Limitations** you documented. In this case, with `<dt-stack>`

<img width="586" alt="image" src="https://github.com/dialpad/dialtone/assets/1165933/1aeb4bba-2c01-420b-b60c-954ec0e57892">

Perhaps DtStack should be wrapped? In fact, maybe the recommendation is to default to wrapping with `<div v-dt-scrollbar>` rather than attaching `v-dt-scrollbar` to an existing element?

```html
<div v-dt-scrollbar>
  <dt-stack ...>
    ...
  </dt-stack>
</div>
```

Reviewer: I pulled it down locally to test my assumption of wrapping with `<div v-dt-scrollbar>`, but that didn't immediately play well. So yeah, sometimes that might work. Other times you'll have to figure the right markup structure. This one did it fine:

```html
<div class="d-bar8 d-ba d-bc-default d-hmx164 d-w30p" v-dt-scrollbar>
  <dt-stack>
    <div v-for="item in items" class="item">
      {{ item}}
    </div>
  </dt-stack>
</div>
```

Author: Fixed in last commit, and added that recommendation to the docs

```

Install the directive into vue instance

```javascript
Vue.use(DtScrollbarDirective);
```

To add a custom overlay scrollbar to a scrollable region, apply the `v-dt-scrollbar` directive to the desired region.
There is no need to explicitly add an `overflow` property. If the section overflows the available vertical space, a vertical scrollbar will be present. Similarly, if it exceeds the horizontal space, a horizontal scrollbar will appear.

## Characteristics

* Has an overlay style: it appears on top of the content rather than the scrollbar taking up space within the container.
* It grows when hovering the scrollbar handle for better accessibility.
* Appears when the mouse enters the scrollable area and disappears on mouse out after a certain time. This can be customized,
see [variants](#variants).
* The look and feel will be the same for every browser and OS.
* Emulates a browser's native scrollbar keyboard and mouse events.

## Variants

To customize the behavior of the scrollbar, you can use different arguments with the directive. The allowed arguments are 'leave' (default), 'never', 'scroll', and 'move'.

### Leave (default option)

> Show the scrollbar when the mouse enters the scrollable area. This is the default option, so no argument is needed.

Reviewer: Given the definition, maybe it should be "Enter (default)"

Author: Yeah, agree it's weird, will update 👍

```javascript
<div v-dt-scrollbar></div>
```

<code-well-header>
  <dt-stack class="d-hmx164 d-w30p d-bar8 d-ba d-bc-default" v-dt-scrollbar>
    <div v-for="item in items" class="item">
      {{ item}}
    </div>
  </dt-stack>
</code-well-header>

### Never

> Always show the scrollbar if the region is overflowing the available space.

Reviewer: Given the definition, maybe it should be "Always".
